From an early age I was fascinated with fossils. My respect for ancient life has always
included an admitted partiality for the study of vertebrates. Upon taking my first college-level
paleontology class I knew without a doubt that I had chosen the right path. The study of fossils
has never felt like unwarranted labor, but an opportunity to learn about these creatures that lived
so long before our time. Throughout my geology coursework my ears have always pricked up at
the mention of the word fossil. My college education has been a means to entering the study of
vertebrate paleontology.
Naturally when the time to choose a thesis project came, I made sure that I would do
mine in the field of paleontology, working directly with fossil specimens. My project involves
the taphonomy, stratigraphy, and identification of a middle-Ordovician coral bioherm as well as
its bryozoan constituents. The research is now well under way, involving many aspects of a
sound paleontological study: sampling, analysis, identification, and finalization into a report.
Fossiliferous rock samples were acquired from the field, cut at proper orientations, polished, and
peel section slides produced from them. My analysis of these slides led to identification of the
specimens utilizing the established literature. Fossil specimen photography will soon follow. The
abstract from this research project has been submitted in time for the Northeastern Section
Meeting of the Geological Society of America in March. From this project I will take away an
understanding of how to conduct a proper paleontological study and I will write a thesis.
My aspirations for study in vertebrate paleontology are primarily in understanding what
fossil specimens can tell us about how ancient vertebrates lived, interacted with their
environment, and evolved through time. More specifically, my research interests within the field
include employing morphology in the phylogenetic analysis of major evolutionary bifurcations
such as that involving theropods and birds, exploiting biogeography to better understand
vertebrate expansion and speciation, and the use of functional morphology and biomechanics to
understand vertebrate movement. My long-term goals are to educate others and spur interest in
vertebrate paleontology while conducting research. The position of professor would encompass
these goals as well as allow me to publish and maintain a successful presence in the field.
The program at the University of Chicago would prepare me extremely well for what I
ultimately intend to do in life. The works of professors within the Division of Biological
Sciences, the Department of Geophysical Sciences, as well as the Field Museum are impressive.
I appreciated meeting Dr. Paul C. Sereno during his visit at Mythic University in December
2004, and I find his approach toward exploration and his application of cladistics in phylogenetic
studies indispensable to the field of vertebrate paleontological study. From this correspondence I
feel the research that I would conduct at the university would not only be interesting and
rewarding, but give me experience in the field to then apply toward my ultimate goal of
becoming an academic professor.