From an early age I was fascinated with fossils. My respect for ancient life has always
included an admitted partiality for the study of vertebrates. Upon taking my first college-level
paleontology class I knew without a doubt that I had chosen the right path. The study of fossils
has never felt like unwarranted labor, but an opportunity to learn about these creatures that lived
so long before our time. Throughout my geology coursework my ears have always pricked up at
the mention of the word fossil. My college education has been a means to entering the study of
vertebrate paleontology.
Naturally when the time to choose a thesis project came, I made sure that I would do
mine in the field of paleontology, working directly with fossil specimens. My project involves
the taphonomy, stratigraphy, and identification of a middle-Ordovician coral bioherm as well as
its bryozoan constituents. The research is now well under way, involving many aspects of a
sound paleontological study: sampling, analysis, identification, and finalization into a report.
Fossiliferous rock samples were acquired from the field, cut at proper orientations, polished, and
peel section slides produced from them. My analysis of these slides led to identification of the
specimens utilizing the established literature. Fossil specimen photography will soon follow. The
abstract from this research project has been submitted in time for the Northeastern Section
Meeting of the Geological Society of America in March. From this project I will take away an
understanding of how to conduct a proper paleontological study and I will write a thesis.
My aspirations for study in vertebrate paleontology are primarily in understanding what
fossil specimens can tell us about how ancient vertebrates lived, interacted with their
environment, and evolved through time. More specifically, my research interests within the field
include employing morphology in the phylogenetic analysis of major evolutionary bifurcations
such as that involving theropods and birds, exploiting biogeography to better understand
vertebrate expansion and speciation, and the use of functional morphology and biomechanics to
understand vertebrate movement. My long-term goals are to educate others and spur interest in
vertebrate paleontology while conducting research. The position of professor would encompass
these goals as well as allow me to publish and maintain a successful presence in the field.
The program at the University of Chicago would prepare me extremely well for what I
ultimately intend to do in life. The works of professors within the Division of Biological
Sciences, the Department of Geophysical Sciences, as well as the Field Museum are impressive.
I appreciated meeting Dr. Paul C. Sereno during his visit at Mythic University in December
2004, and I find his approach toward exploration and his application of cladistics in phylogenetic
studies indispensable to the field of vertebrate paleontological study. From this correspondence I
feel the research that I would conduct at the university would not only be interesting and
rewarding, but give me experience in the field to then apply toward my ultimate goal of
becoming an academic professor. 
Prior to coming to Mythic College, I had a very skewed view of what geography was. When I
thought about geography, visions of memorizing all fifty state capitals and exercises of filling in
the world map came to mind. Freshman year, I enrolled in Geography 20 (human geography)
simply because it was the only honors class that fit in my schedule. Instead of being bored, I was
stimulated to think of the world through a different focus, through the lens of a geographer: to
view people and places and examine how each relates to the other. Suddenly, I was thinking of
everything in this fashion. When walking to class, I would ponder why the paths were designed
the way they were and how this affected the different flows of traffic. I found that geography
addresses my varied academic interests well. It offers me a balance of physical, social, and
cultural studies. Therefore, it was a natural progression for me to pursue geography as a major.
Throughout my geography experience at Mythic College, I have gained skill in Geographic
Information Sciences, which has given me great insight in many fields. For one, I obtained a
greater understanding of how the US Census is calculated and this enabled me to be a more
informed enumerator. Now, I find myself completely captivated by the various elements of
geography and how they all are interwoven in a nexus of relations with historical, economic,
physical, social, and cultural nodes. For my Honors Thesis next year, I will be exploring the
Rothschild family to see how they fit within these various geographic realms. I am fascinated by
how this family began as foreigners and within a few years was able to build a banking empire
and become leaders in the economic world. As part of my thesis research, I intend to travel to the
various cities where they lived and make observations on both economic and social grounds.
After I complete my undergraduate education in geography, I hope to work for an organization
that incorporates geographical education and exploration. I hope to be able to write articles and
essays that would be used to increase geographical awareness as well as educate people about
lesser-known cultures in the world. I also intend on participating in the Peace Corps and
speculate about earning a law degree.
I wish to participate in the Geography Intern Program with the National Geographic Society
because, in short, it would be the fulfillment of my dream. It would enable me to work in an
environment with people who share similar interests, providing me with an opportunity to
contribute to a product that reaches a broad audience of people who subscribe to the magazine,
visit Explorer's Hall, or glance through a National Geographic book. It would provide me with
the practical experience that would aid me tremendously in pursuing my future goals, and reveal
paths I might otherwise never discover.